FPGA: field programmable gate array is a highly capable type of integrated circuit, an electronics cicruit in a signle package.
          The field programmable part of the name indicates that FPGAs can be reprogrammed when in the field (that is, without having to 
          return them to the manufacturer).
          The gate array part indicates that an FPGA is made up of a two-dimensional grid featuring a large number of gates (fundamental 
          units of digital logic)

FPGAs are a good candidate for any digital electronics problem where high bandwidth, low latency, or high processing capability is needed.

An FPGA is like a blank slate that can be programmed to do almost anything, 
providing you with tremendous flexibility to tackle a wide range of digital logic problems.



--*--
Comparing an FPGA vs. a Microcontroller vs. an ASIC

                                FPGA               Microcontroller           ASIC
Cost (low quantities)           Moderate           Cheap                     Expensive
Cost (high quantities)          Moderate           Cheap                     Cheap
Speed                           Fast               Moderate                  Fast+
Power                           Moderate           Low                       Low
Flexibility                     High               Low                       None
Ease of use                     Medium             Easy                      Difficult


The act of examining multiple possibilities and selecting a technical solution is often
referred to in engineering as a trade study.

--*--


Synthesis
---------

  Synthesis is the process of breaking down your VHDL (or Verilog) code and converting it to simple components (LUTs, flip-flops, block RAMs and so on) that exists on your specific FPGA.
In this sense, an FPGA synthesis tool is similar to a compiler, which takes code ina language like C and breaks it down into very simple instructions that your cpu can understand.

A key output of synthesis process is your utilization report, which tells you how many {FPGA resources: LUTs, flip-flops, block RAMs and other resources} you're using in your design.

errors after synthesis:
(1) Syntax errors
(2) Utilization error:
    where your design requires more components than the FPGA has available.
        (a) Switch to a larger FPGA
        (b) Identify the most resource-intensive modules and rewrite them.
        (c) Remove functionality.
b:(i) rewriting the code with a focus on lower reesource utilization.
  (ii) have different inputs (or channels) share the same FPGA resource. [only works if you have time available to share a resource.]

The process of sharing a resource is called #arbitration, and the component that performs sharing is often referred to as an #arbiter.
Arbiters can be built to share off-FPGA resources as well.

-.-

Non-Synthesizable code
  The tool will move forward with synthesis process, omitting the non-synthesizable parts from the final design.

synthesis translate_off

"sim" code

synthesis translate_on




common areas where non-synthesizable code arises:
* keeping track of time: now, wait for, ...
* printing text: assert, $display (verilog), ...
* working with files: file_open(), write(), ...
* looping



--
Synthesis: Compilation, elaboration, logic minimization, translation

--

Place and route:
----------------

Place and route is the process of taking your synthesized design and mapping it to physical locations on your specific FPGA.

Place and route: 2 processes

place: placement of synthesized design into your FPGA
routing: routing of that design using physical wires to connect everything together.

To run the place and route process, you need to constrain at least 2 aspects of your design: the pins and the clocks. {addln: Input/ output delays, specific routing, ...}

The pin contraints tells the place and route tool which signals in the VHDL (or Verilog) code are mapped to which physical pins on the FPGA.
The clock constraints tell the tool about the clock frequency (or frequencies) used to drive your FPGA.
  If everything is sure to works under the specified clock contraints, the design is said to meet timing, and the report will show this.
